Simulating Everything and its Consequences

- Modelling is representing something so that you can ask specific questions about the real thing
    - an architectural model can answer questions about how a proposed building will look
    - a fashion model answers how clothes will look on people, though their goal is not accuracy, since the models do not look much like common people, and are instead chosen to make the clothes look good
- Simulation is taking a model and evolving it over time
    - many cover physics
    - like this hilarious horse simulator found on Wikipedia
- Simulation is in the talk title, but I'll be talking about modelling too
    - focusing on computerized simulation

- I use modelling and simulation techniques extensively for engineering work
    - FEA (knee?) and multibody dynamics (NUCARS)
    - [show animations] so exciting! (sarcasm)
- Many techniques are used in many areas of science
    - [something from Ben?]
    - [any other things?]
    - also exciting! (more sarcasm)
- Scientific simulations, you may note, do not appear very exciting
    - focus on total correctness in a narrow domain
    - eg. my railcar simulations go up to derailment, not after, since it's already failed by that point
- But they do great things for us
    - TODO list some things

- For more dramatic simulations, move to the art world

- What does the future hold?  How far can simulations go?
    - computational limits: eg. full detail simulation can be no smaller than the simulated
    - we're doing larger brains; estimate of human-sized in [x] time
    - which raises the question: how detailed must a simulated human be before we have to give it rights?
        - Turing test is the classic test for intelligence
        - it's even possible that we're simulated
        - if simulated people are as real as us, don't they deserve rights?
        - but you can "simulate" (imagine) a person in all sorts of terrible situations; are you a monster as a result?
        - what about when you take your characters in The Sims and burn them alive?
        - if not, what simulation fidelity is needed before torturing the simulation is wrong?

- But I'm not here to get all philosophical; how will simulation affect our lives in the future?
    - it will continue the ways it already does, of course, but even more because of more computing power
        - could result in more tailored products (eg. medical); sim techniques to optimize per person
    - will become more democratized with more people simulating, but that has its limits too
        - as more detail can be simulated, fewer judgement calls will be needed
    - better simulations means better video games
        - and that may include wider applications of VR beyond just games (though I'm sure you've heard that before)
    - and if we can simulate whole brains, maybe that means digital copies of ourselves
